nuScenes, nuPlan, nuImages, and nuReality Terms of Use

Non-Commercial Use

nuScenes, nuPlan, nuImages, and nuReality are leading datasets for
Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) and are available for non-commercial use
subject to the Terms of Use below.

Terms of Use

These terms were last updated on Nov 16, 2021

Description

Motional AD Inc. and its affiliates (hereinafter "Motional") strive to
enhance public access to and use of data that it collects and
publishes. The data are organized in datasets (the “Datasets”) listed
at nuScenes.org and nuReality.org (the “Websites”). The Datasets are
collections of data, managed by Motional and provided in a number of
machine-readable formats. Motional provides any individual or entity
(hereinafter You” or “Your”) with access to the Datasets free of charge
subject to the terms of this agreement (hereinafter “Dataset Terms”).
Use of any data derived from the Datasets, which may appear in any
format such as tables and charts, is also subject to these Dataset
Terms.

Licenses

Unless specifically labeled otherwise, these Datasets are provided to
You under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
International Public License (“CC BY-NC-SA 4.0”), with the additional
terms included herein. The CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 may be accessed at
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode When You
download or use the Datasets from the Websites or elsewhere, You are
agreeing to comply with the terms of CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 as applicable, and
also agreeing to the Dataset Terms. Where these Dataset Terms conflict
with the terms of CC BY-NC-SA 4.0, these Dataset Terms shall prevail.

Exceptions for some third-party data

Some datasets and indicators are provided by third parties and may not
be redistributed or reused without the consent of the original data
provider, or may be subject to terms and conditions that are different
from those described above. Where applicable, these conditions are
included in the dataset or indicator metadata.

Comments

Motional encourages You to share your suggestions and ideas for using
or facilitating access to the Datasets with Motional. If You wish to
make other comments, please contact us by sending an email to
nuScenes@motional.com.

Privacy

Please see our Privacy Policy for more details. If You have any privacy
concerns, including to remove your name or other personal information,
you may use the form at the Takedown Request page.

No endorsement

You may not publicly represent or imply that Motional is participating
in, or has sponsored, approved, or endorsed the manner or purpose of
Your use or reproduction of the Datasets without prior written consent
from Motional. Motional may prosecute, to the fullest extent of the
law, any use of Datasets in a manner that falsifies, misrepresents,
disparages, or fraudulently uses the Datasets.

No association

You may not use the name, any trade-mark, official mark, official
emblem, or logo of Motional, or any of its other means of promotion or
publicity, without Motional's prior written consent nor in any event to
represent or imply an association or affiliation with Motional.

Termination

Motional may terminate Your access to all or any part of the Datasets
or the Websites at any time, with or without cause, with or without
notice, effective immediately. If You wish to terminate Your account on
the Websites, You may notify Motional at nuScenes@motional.com.

All provisions of the Dataset Terms which by their nature should
survive termination shall survive termination, including, without
limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity, and
limitations of liability.

Warranties

THE DATASETS AND WEBSITES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ALL CONTENT
AND MODIFICATIONS OF ORIGINAL DATASETS POSTED ON THE WEBSITES) ARE
PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY WARRANTIES IMPLIED BY ANY COURSE OF
PERFORMANCE OR USAGE OF TRADE, ALL OF WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, MOTIONAL DOES NOT WARRANT THAT: (A) THE
CONTENT OR MODIFICATIONS TO THE DATASET ARE TIMELY, ACCURATE, COMPLETE,
RELIABLE OR CORRECT IN THEIR POSTED FORMS AT THE WEBSITES; (B) THE
WEBSITES WILL BE SECURE; (C) THE WEBSITES WILL BE AVAILABLE AT ANY
PARTICULAR TIME OR LOCATION; (D) ANY DEFECTS OR ERRORS WILL BE
CORRECTED; (E) THE WEBSITES, CONTENT OR ANY MODIFICATIONS ARE FREE OF
VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS; OR (F) THE RESULTS OF USING THE
WEBSITES WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS. YOUR USE OF THE WEBSITES, THE
DATASETS, AND ANY CONTENT IS SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK.

Limitation of liability

IN NO EVENT SHALL MOTIONAL AND ITS AFFILIATES, OR THEIR DIRECTORS,
EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, PARTNERS, OR SUPPLIERS, BE LIABLE UNDER CONTRACT,
TORT, STRICT LIABILITY, NEGLIGENCE OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY WITH
RESPECT TO THE WEBSITES, THE DATASETS, OR ANY CONTENT OR USER
SUBMISSIONS (I) FOR ANY DIRECT DAMAGES, OR (II) FOR ANY LOST PROFITS OR
SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF
ANY KIND WHATSOEVER.

Indemnification

You will indemnify and hold Motional harmless from and against any and
all loss, cost, expense, liability, or damage, including, without
limitation, all reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs, arising
from (i) Your use or misuse of the Websites or the Datasets; (ii) Your
access to the Websites; (iii) Your violation of the Dataset Terms; or
(iv) infringement by You, or any third party using Your account, of any
intellectual property or other right of any person or entity, including
but not limited to infringements upon any and all representations made
by You in this Agreement. Such losses, costs, expenses, damages, or
liabilities shall include, without limitation, all actual, general,
special, and consequential damages.

Dispute Resolution

You and Motional agree that any cause of action arising out of or
related to the Datasets must commence within one (1) year after the
cause of action arose; otherwise, such cause of action is permanently
barred.

These Terms of Use shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (excluding the
conflict of laws rules thereof). All disputes under these Dataset Terms
will be resolved in the applicable state or federal courts of
Massachusetts. You consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and waive
any jurisdictional or venue defenses otherwise available.

Integration and severability

This Agreement is the entire agreement between You and Motional with
respect to the Datasets and use of the Websites and supersedes all
prior or contemporaneous communications and proposals (whether oral,
written, or electronic) between You and Motional with respect to the
Websites (but excluding the use of any third-party software, widgets,
and applications that may be subject to a separate end-user license
agreement). If any provision of the Dataset Terms is found to be
unenforceable or invalid, that provision will be limited or eliminated
to the minimum extent necessary so that the Dataset Terms will
otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable.

Miscellaneous

Motional may assign, transfer or delegate any of its rights and
obligations hereunder without consent. No agency, partnership, joint
venture, or employment relationship is created as a result of the
Dataset Terms and neither party has any authority of any kind to bind
the other in any respect outside the specified terms of this Agreement.
In any action or proceeding to enforce rights under the Dataset Terms,
the prevailing party will be entitled to recover costs and attorneys’
fees.

These Dataset Terms may be amended by Motional from time to at our sole
discretion. Please periodically review the controlling version of these
Dataset Terms. By continuing to use the Datasets subsequent to Motional
making available an amended version of these Dataset Terms, You
acknowledge, agree and consent to such amendment.

You agree that it is solely Your responsibility to comply with all
applicable laws with regard to Your use or publication of the Datasets,
including any applicable privacy, data protection, security, and export
laws. You agree to take reasonable steps to assist Motional in
fulfilling responsibilities to comply with applicable laws with regard
to use or publication of Datasets.


=======================================================================


Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree
to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License
("Public License"). To the extent this Public License may be
interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in
consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the
Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the
Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under
these terms and conditions.


Section 1 -- Definitions.

  a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar
     Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material
     and in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered,
     arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified in a manner requiring
     permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held by the
     Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
     Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording,
     Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is
     synched in timed relation with a moving image.

  b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright
     and Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in
     accordance with the terms and conditions of this Public License.

  c. BY-NC-SA Compatible License means a license listed at
     creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative
     Commons as essentially the equivalent of this Public License.

  d. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
     closely related to copyright including, without limitation,
     performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database
     Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or
     categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights
     specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
     Rights.

  e. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
     absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws
     fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright
     Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international
     agreements.

  f. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or
     any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights
     that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.

  g. License Elements means the license attributes listed in the name
     of a Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this
     Public License are Attribution, NonCommercial, and ShareAlike.

  h. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database,
     or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public
     License.

  i. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the
     terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to
     all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the
     Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.

  j. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights
     under this Public License.

  k. NonCommercial means not primarily intended for or directed towards
     commercial advantage or monetary compensation. For purposes of
     this Public License, the exchange of the Licensed Material for
     other material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights by digital
     file-sharing or similar means is NonCommercial provided there is
     no payment of monetary compensation in connection with the
     exchange.

  l. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or
     process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such
     as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution,
     dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material
     available to the public including in ways that members of the
     public may access the material from a place and at a time
     individually chosen by them.

  m. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright
     resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of
     the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases,
     as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially
     equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

  n. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights
     under this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.


Section 2 -- Scope.

  a. License grant.

       1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License,
          the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free,
          non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to
          exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:

            a. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or
               in part, for NonCommercial purposes only; and

            b. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material for
               NonCommercial purposes only.

       2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
          Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public
          License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with
          its terms and conditions.

       3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
          6(a).

       4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The
          Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in
          all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created,
          and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The
          Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or
          authority to forbid You from making technical modifications
          necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including
          technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective
          Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License,
          simply making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)
          (4) never produces Adapted Material.

       5. Downstream recipients.

            a. Offer from the Licensor -- Licensed Material. Every
               recipient of the Licensed Material automatically
               receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the
               Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this
               Public License.

            b. Additional offer from the Licensor -- Adapted Material.
               Every recipient of Adapted Material from You
               automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
               exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material
               under the conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

            c. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose
               any additional or different terms or conditions on, or
               apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the
               Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the
               Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed
               Material.

       6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or
          may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You
          are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected
          with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by,
          the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
          provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

  b. Other rights.

       1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not
          licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity,
          privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to
          the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to
          assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited
          extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed
          Rights, but not otherwise.

       2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this
          Public License.

       3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to
          collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed
          Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society
          under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory
          licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly
          reserves any right to collect such royalties, including when
          the Licensed Material is used other than for NonCommercial
          purposes.


Section 3 -- License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the
following conditions.

  a. Attribution.

       1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified
          form), You must:

            a. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor
               with the Licensed Material:

                 i. identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed
                    Material and any others designated to receive
                    attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by
                    the Licensor (including by pseudonym if
                    designated);

                ii. a copyright notice;

               iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                iv. a notice that refers to the disclaimer of
                    warranties;

                 v. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
                    extent reasonably practicable;

            b. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and
               retain an indication of any previous modifications; and

            c. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this
               Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or
               hyperlink to, this Public License.

       2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any
          reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in
          which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be
          reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or
          hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
          information.
       3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
          information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent
          reasonably practicable.

  b. ShareAlike.

     In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
     Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

       1. The Adapter's License You apply must be a Creative Commons
          license with the same License Elements, this version or
          later, or a BY-NC-SA Compatible License.

       2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
          Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition
          in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and
          context in which You Share Adapted Material.

       3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms
          or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological
          Measures to, Adapted Material that restrict exercise of the
          rights granted under the Adapter's License You apply.


Section 4 -- Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that
apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:

  a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right
     to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial
     portion of the contents of the database for NonCommercial purposes
     only;

  b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database
     contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material,
     including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

  c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share
     all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not
replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed
Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.


Section 5 -- Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

  a. UNLESS OTHERWISE SEPARATELY UNDERTAKEN BY THE LICENSOR, TO THE
     EXTENT POSSIBLE, THE LICENSOR OFFERS THE LICENSED MATERIAL AS-IS
     AND AS-AVAILABLE, AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF
     ANY KIND CONCERNING THE LICENSED MATERIAL, WHETHER EXPRESS,
     IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHER. THIS INCLUDES, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
     PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS,
     ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT
     KNOWN OR DISCOVERABLE. WHERE DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES ARE NOT
     ALLOWED IN FULL OR IN PART, THIS DISCLAIMER MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  b. TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE, IN NO EVENT WILL THE LICENSOR BE LIABLE
     TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE FOR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
     INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, OR OTHER LOSSES,
     COSTS, EXPENSES, OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS PUBLIC LICENSE OR
     USE OF THE LICENSED MATERIAL, EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, COSTS, EXPENSES, OR
     DAMAGES. WHERE A LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IS NOT ALLOWED IN FULL OR
     IN PART, THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided
     above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent
     possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and
     waiver of all liability.


Section 6 -- Term and Termination.

  a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and
     Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with
     this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License
     terminate automatically.

  b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
     Section 6(a), it reinstates:

       1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided
          it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the
          violation; or

       2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any
     right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations
     of this Public License.

  c. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the
     Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop
     distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so
     will not terminate this Public License.

  d. Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public
     License.


Section 7 -- Other Terms and Conditions.

  a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different
     terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

  b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the
     Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and
     independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.


Section 8 -- Interpretation.

  a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and
     shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose
     conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully
     be made without permission under this Public License.

  b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
     deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the
     minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision
     cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License
     without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and
     conditions.

  c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
     failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the
     Licensor.

  d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted
     as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities
     that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal
     processes of any jurisdiction or authority.
